Hi, guys.
Welcome.
In this lecture, we are going to be able to switch from one bottom navigation bar item.
So the order.
Okay, now in order to do this, we're going to need to go back to our VTS code.
Now the first step is to create a variable via.
Which is going to be a number.
So it is a data type of event and we can call this on the score selected.
Item.
Then we're going to need to set it to zero.
We will need to update the UI in order to update the UI.
We need to use the set state and in order to use the state, we need to use a stateful widget.
So what we can do, we can alight this and use controller and dots, then convert to stateful widgets.
Okay.
Now use true and save.
Now it's in the bottom navigation bar.
The bottom navigation bar has a property known as current index.
Okay.
For the current index we're going to need to say on the score selected item default it zero.
Right.
So this is going to be the first item we have.
That is the whole assignment we change this to.
Two one.
One use controls to save.
And it's going to be the second item.
We can just halt to studies.
Well, it's restarting and it's going to be the.
The second.
Item check.
Okay.
You can see it now, the second item and so on.
Now within the bottom navigation bar, the bottom navigation bar has the well has a property known as
on tap, which is a function.
And over this parenthesis, we're going to pass in something known as indents, which you can see as
the value of this.
This does this, this.
And.
We need this.
And over here, we are going to set stage in that to update the UI.
And now we just have to cover this to zero.
Okay.
And now we're going to need to call that on the score selected.
Item is going to be equal to this index.
So we are basically saying we want to update the index right now is control to save.
And click on this.
Okay.
You can see.
Now I'm just going to come back to this again.
Now, the first thing we did was to create a variable which we called on the score selected item, and
it is a type of number, so it is a type of int and therefore we are setting it zero, which is going
to be the first bottom navigation bar item that is the home.
And over here we send the bottom navigation bar.
The bottom navigation bar has a property known as current index and we are saying it's going to be set
to zero.
You can just see it as this.
Okay.
So you are saying it's going to be set to zero.
And as well, the bottom navigation bar has a property known as on tap, which is a function within
the parentheses we pass in the index, which is referring to each of the bottom navigation bar value.
And over here we are set state because in the dates of the DUI, we have to set the state and we're
basically calling this variable called underscore.
Selected item, then we are updating it.
Remember I said you can see this in this as the value of whatever.
That is.
Yeah.
So you can see this as the value that is one zero.
So it basically updates this to whatever value fully understand this.
So that's how easy it is.
Now what we can also do, we can make this bottom navigation bar fixed.
That is, we don't want this animation to.
Let's do this way.
What we can do is the bottom navigation bar has a property known as type, and we can then say bottom.
Navigation.
By type.
Dods.
You can see shifting I think the efforts.
We have this often, and that is why you can see it this way.
You can see when you click on this, I think the bottom navigation bar is shifting.
So we don't want this, but you can just go with this design.
But we want the the fist is control and let's save.
And.
Try this out.
Okay.
Not longer shifts.
And right now you can see the color.
And the reason for that is said the selected item color is going to be color and the selected item color
is going to be color black.
So whenever we select any of the item, it's going to have that color.
And then once we did not sell that, it's going to be black.
So you can just have your own design.
Probably yours could be red for the selected item color and for the selected icon.
The selected item color use can be probably purple or pink or whatever.
So you can just go with your own style, okay?
Okay, guys, see you in the next lecture.